
## I. Setting the scene: eigenmodes, dynamics, gradients, geometry, and connectivity in macroscale brain organization

Kick off with first sentence, will cite [@galan2008network; @Robinson2012].


across with several major themes in whole-brain modelling, including harmonic eigenmode decompositions (of connectivity and/or geometry), cortical gradients, and standing/travelling wave dynamics.
the development of a unified theoretical approach to brain dynamics, including harmonic eigenmodes, connectivity and geometric eigenmodes, principal gradients,
resulting in a major theoretical roadblock. The issue is that
best available current theory.
The significance of this discrepancy should not be taken lightly.
eigenvectors of anatomical connetivity (AC).
Magnitude should not be taken lightly.
Anodine as this may seem,.

### The spectral theory of global brain dynamics: a simple linear model

\hat{C} = \hat{Y} \hat{Y'}
Y = M A^{-1}+I 


The brain: 

C = M A^{-1} + I + N

The data:

\hat{C} = M A^{-1} + I + N





## II. The problem: the first non-trivial eigenvector of rsfMRI FC is too high spatial frequency

theory predicts that AC & FC lie in same eigenspace
specifically
first (non-trivial eigenvector of FC is higher spatial frequency that it should be
first (non-trivial) eigenvector of anatomical connectivity / geometry is

vascular stuff; keilholz says bilateral may be vascular; cites nanying zhang

serves as an effective roadblock to the development of a unified theoretical approach to brain dynamics that

The spatiotemporal correlation structure of low-frequency activity fluctuations remins one of the most robustly replicable and widely studied empirical phenomena in all of biology, and also one of the most enigmatic.


 


## III. Some potential solutions

possible answers:

- chords
- connectivity is wrong [ e.g. weight longer range ]
- common input
- subcortical
- noisy data [ c.f. henderson long time scale ]
- margulies zones
- peter criticality ideas
- this higher frequency mode is consistently excited


other notes:

- cabral fast/slow freq + anti correlation
- sparsity / density
- vasculature etc
- do expansion on eeg/meg erps and fc and get spharms [ known for a long time ]
- :21





### 1 - Connectivity is wrong

1 - re-weight long-range connections
2 - re-weight eigenvectors


### 2 - Input is wrong

3 - common sensory inputs (incl. holmes stuff..)
4 - subcortical drive


### 3 - Non-neuronal signal contributions

5 - Vasculature


### 4 - Aggregations / mode excitations

5 - chords
6 - specific excitation of high-frequency modes

Citing deco here @deco2013a.


Cite Robinson here [@robinson2012; @robinson2016].

@atasoy2016



## IV. Pulling it all together

